readme.md, before:

# @typed/fp

A collection of libraries and tools for building applications using [fp-ts v3](https://github.com/fp-ts) and [Effect](https://github.com/Effect-TS).

While some libraries like `Fx`, which provides a push-based stream abstraction, are generally applicable, many libraries have a strong focus
on building web applications on both the backend and frontend. 

These libraries are highly in flux, and not yet published. Please reach out with all your curiousities in the meantime!

## Community

If you're interested in chatting about this project join us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/kpPHEvkaAv).

## Packages

- [Fx](./packages/fx) - Push-based Streams atop of Effect
- [DOM](./packages/dom) - Effect-based abstractions for interacting with the DOM
- [HTML](./packages/html) - Port of [uhtml](https://github.com/webreflection/uhtml) to work with @typed/fx
- [Path](./packages/path) - Type-safe DSL for working with [path-to-regexp](https://github.com/pillarjs/path-to-regexp)
- [Route](./packages/route) - Effect-based abstraction for describing a Route built on `Path`
- [Router](./packages/router) - Fx-based abstraction for routing with `Route`

## Upcoming

- Static generation of files
- Integrations with @fp-ts/schema
- Itegrations with @fp-ts/optic
-

Commit message:

docs: add mention of vite plugin

readme.md, after:

# @typed/fp

A collection of libraries and tools for building applications using [fp-ts v3](https://github.com/fp-ts) and [Effect](https://github.com/Effect-TS).

While some libraries like `Fx`, which provides a push-based stream abstraction, are generally applicable, many libraries have a strong focus
on building web applications on both the backend and frontend. 

These libraries are highly in flux, and not yet published. Please reach out with all your curiousities in the meantime!

## Community

If you're interested in chatting about this project join us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/kpPHEvkaAv).

## Packages

- [Fx](./packages/fx) - Push-based Streams atop of Effect
- [DOM](./packages/dom) - Effect-based abstractions for interacting with the DOM
- [HTML](./packages/html) - Port of [uhtml](https://github.com/webreflection/uhtml) to work with @typed/fx
- [Path](./packages/path) - Type-safe DSL for working with [path-to-regexp](https://github.com/pillarjs/path-to-regexp)
- [Route](./packages/route) - Effect-based abstraction for describing a Route built on `Path`
- [Router](./packages/router) - Fx-based abstraction for routing with `Route`
- [Vite Plugin](./packages/vite-plugin) - Vite plugin for building CSR and SSR applications with Effect and the packages above.

## Example

There is currently one toy example in the example directory which will showcase the way our vite plugin works.

## Upcoming

- Static generation of files
- Integrations with @fp-ts/schema
- Itegrations with @fp-ts/optic
-
